# Close encounter on the Trent

I went to the [Trent Rowing Club](http://www.trentrc.org) last night and managed to get out on the water for 30 minutes or so  with a lady called Dee (not sure of the spelling). Anyway, Dee wasn't too familiar with the boat we were in, so steering was interesting. I did learn how to "Pull on Stern" and "Pull on Bow", so that's something! We got pretty close to a few swans and ducks, a few near misses with some kayaks and a collision  with a twin scull. But, they were on the wrong side of the river and we were hugging the bank. It was a bit scary for a second there as we hit each other, but no-one got wet or hurt, so all is well. I got a face full of flies/midges on a number of occasions and a few branches on my back. But all in all it was nice to get some practise in. As this was only my 3rd time on the water I need all the practise I can get.

I'm definitely going to join the club, I decided that while I was there last night. Having just started a new job where I mostly work at home, I need something to get me out of the house! And they seem like a decent bunch of folk at Burton, so why not. They're even ear-marking me for a  position in an eight. But I don't think that will be until next season, or maybe in a head race.

I strained a ligament in my back about 2 months ago, so I've not really done any training in the gym since then. I've done a fair bit of  swimming, and managed to work myself up to doing 30 lengths of the 20 metre pool we have at the gym. I don't think that's too bad, given the fact that I couldn't swim 5 years ago. So, I'm hoping to enter the BIRC again this year and get my time for the 2k back down to around the 6:30 mark. I don't know if I'll be able to achieve that, but it's something to aim for.